FINANCE RELATED TERMS

SECURITY
	Any investment product that can be exchanged for value and involves risk. In order for an investment to be considered a security, 
	it must be readily transferable between two parties and the owner must be subject to the loss of some, or all, of the invested principal.
	If the product is not transferable or does not contain risk, it is not a security.
	Examples - Mutual funds, bonds, real estate investment trust etc.
	
EQUITY
	One’s ownership in any asset after all debts associated with that asset are paid off. For example, a car or house with no outstanding debt
	is considered entirely the owner's equity because he or she can readily sell the item for cash, with no debt standing between the owner and
	the sale. Stocks are equity because they represent ownership in a company. Therefore, equity is the value of an asset after deducting the 
	value of liabilities. One could determine the equity of a business by determining its value (factoring in any owned land, buildings, capital
	goods, inventory and earnings) and deducting liabilities (including debts and overhead).
	
	For example, suppose that Jeff owns and operates a factory that manufactures car parts and that he wants to determine the equity of his
	business. He estimates that the value of the property itself is $4 million, the total value of his factory equipment is $2 million, the
	current value of his inventory and supplies (processed and unprocessed) is $1 million and the value of his accounts receivable is $1 million.
	He also knows that he owes $1 million for loans he took out to finance the factory, that he owes his workers $500,000 in wages and that he 
	owes his parts supplier $500,000 for parts he has already received. To calculate his business’s equity, Jeff would subtract his total 
	liabilities from the total value of his business in the following way:

	Total value – total liability = ($4M + $2M + $1M + $1M) – ($1M + $0.5M + $0.5M) = $8M - $2M = $6 million

	Jeff’s manufacturing company, then, is worth $6 million.
	
	Investors who hold stock in a company are usually interested in their own personal equity in the company, represented by their shares. Yet,
	this kind of personal equity is a function of the total equity of the company itself, so a shareholder concerned for their own earnings 
	will necessarily be concerned for the company itself.

STOCK
	A share in the ownership of a company. Stock represents a claim on the company's assets and earnings. As you acquire more stock, your 
	ownership stake in the company becomes greater. Whether you say shares, equity, or stock, it all means the same thing. 
	Holding a company's stock means that you are one of the many owners (shareholders) of a company and, as such, you have a claim 
	(usually very small) to everything the company owns. The importance of being a shareholder is that you are entitled to a portion of the
	company's profits and have a claim on assets. Profits are sometimes paid out in the form of dividends. The more shares you own, the larger
	the portion of the profits you get. Your claim on assets is only relevant if a company goes bankrupt. In case of liquidation, you'll 
	receive what's left AFTER all the creditors have been paid.
	
BOND
	The problem large organizations run into is that they typically need far more money than the average bank can provide. The solution is to 
	raise money by issuing bonds to a public market. Thousands of investors then each lend a portion of the capital needed. The organization that 
	sells a bond is known as the issuer.
	The issuer of a bond must pay the investor something extra for the privilege of using his or her money. This "extra" comes in the form of 
	interest payments, which are made at a predetermined rate and schedule. The interest rate is often referred to as the coupon. The date on 
	which the issuer has to repay the amount borrowed (known as face value) is called the maturity date. Bonds are known as fixed-income 
	securities because you know the exact amount of cash you'll get back if you hold the security until maturity. 

	
DEBT vs EQUITY
	A company can borrow money by taking a loan from a bank or by issuing bonds. Both methods fit under debt financing. On the other hand, a
	company can raise money by selling a part of the company which is called as issuing stock which comes under equity financing.
	When you buy a debt investment such as a bond, you are guaranteed the return of your money (the principal) along with promised interest 
	payments. This isn't the case with an equity investment. By becoming an owner, you assume the risk of the company not being successful. 
	This means that if a company goes bankrupt and liquidates, you, as a shareholder, don't get any money until the banks and bondholders have 
	been paid out.
	By purchasing equity (stock) an investor becomes an owner in a corporation whereas by purchasing debt (bonds) an investor becomes a creditor to 
	the corporation (or government).
	














